# Senior-Thesis

## Introduction
Beating the market is a highly desirable outcome which results in millionaires and billionaires paying for extra fees to have someone do it for them. Anyone can blindly throw their money into a traditional index fund and expect an average of about ten percent returns every year, but it takes valuable skills to beat the market. Besides large fees, we also know that this skill is so valuable that there are significant consequences for trying to cheat the market. Insider trading, or the act of illegally trading based on the stock exchange using non-public information, is a severe crime which can result in up to 20 years in federal prison and a fine of up to $5 million. So what does it take to legally exceed market returns?
	First, we need to understand how the market works, more specifically the New York Stock Exchange because it is the largest stock exchange in the world. As of June, 2022, the NSYE had a total of 2,584 listed domestic and international companies with a market capitalization of about $24 trillion. When investors buy stocks on the exchange, their goal is to sell the stock at a higher price than they originally bought it, but how is the price dictated? The price of a stock does not actually directly reflect the value of the company. Stock price is determined by the total market capitalization divided by the amount of all outstanding shares. For example, Tesla ($TSLA) stock in October of 2022 is priced at around $250 per share, while Apple ($AAPL) stock is priced at about $145 per share. However, Apple’s valuation is actually triple the valuation of Tesla’s, despite the lower price. These prices are not dictated by the company, they are dictated by the public who is trading these shares. In the late 1960s, Eugene Fama published the Efficient Market Hypothesis, which stated that at any given time, stock prices fully reflect all available information, therefore no investor should have an advantage over other investors because everyone has the same knowledge, making it “impossible” to beat the market. In addition to this, we also know that consumer behavior is based on maximizing total utility by getting the most value for what they are purchasing. The trading price of a stock is essentially the equilibrium of the value that each investor places on the stock, as no investor will sell for a price they believe is lower than what they are valuing the stock at, likewise, investors will not buy a stock at a higher price than they value it at. Theoretically, it is impossible to beat the market consistently, but in practice it still happens. How?
	Given that everyone has access to the same information, it ultimately comes down to what you do with that information that will dictate your performance in the market. Whether it is evaluating financial statements, technical analysis of charts, or even taking into account what is said on social media, properly utilizing this information better than other investors can give an edge. This brings me to the goal of this paper, which is to see if optimizing Twitter data can give an edge when investing in markets, more specifically, when trading Bitcoin ($BTC).
	There are roughly 330 million Twitter users across the globe and there are over 500 million tweets every single day. *insert tweets involving BTC*. While the majority of these tweets are going to be irrelevant to what we care about, there are still tons of data that can be used to our advantage. What these tweets provide us with is insight into what the community is thinking about Bitcoin. As stated before, prices are the equilibrium of the value given by investors, so what investors are thinking is valuable. Again, everyone has access to this data and insight, but not everyone can properly analyze it or capture enough data to formulate a consensus.
	Rather than reading through every tweet and coming up with a conclusion based on the sentiment from every tweet, we can use data science to analyze the language of these tweets to determine an overall outlook. We can also take into consideration the reputation of the owner of the tweet. This is a concept that is seen in Google’s original PageRank algorithm, which was the algorithm Google used to create their search engine. This concept entails that a source that has more links into the account, versus out of the account, is more valuable and assigned a higher score. The goal is to draw the best inferences from these tweets to assign each tweet a “score” on a scale from -1 to 1, with -1 being the most extreme negative sentiment and 1 being the most extreme positive sentiment, and then determining if the average score during a given time period has any correlation with the price.
